documentation/DbSetupWithOLM.md, before:

# Database Operator - Operator deployed with OLM

🔴 IMPORTANT: First install the [prerequistes](Prerequisites.md)! If you don't do it, it won't work :)

🔴 IMPORTANT: Webhooks and Prometheus doesn't work in this configuration yet.

### Deploy catalog source and subscription

```
$ cd operator-database
```

For Kubernetes:

```
$ kubectl apply -f olm/catalogsource.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f olm/subscription.yaml 
```

For OpenShift:

```
$ kubectl apply -f olm/catalogsource-openshift.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f olm/subscription-openshift.yaml 
```

### Verify the setup

For Kubernetes:

```
$ export NAMESPACE=operators
```

For OpenShift:

```
$ export NAMESPACE=openshift-operators
```

```
$ kubectl get all -n $NAMESPACE
$ kubectl get catalogsource operator-database-catalog -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl get subscriptions operator-database-v0-0-1-sub -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl get csv operator-database.v0.0.1 -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl get installplans -n $NAMESPACE
$ kubectl get installplans install-xxxxx -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl get operators operator-database.$NAMESPACE -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl create ns database   
$ kubectl apply -f config/samples/database.sample_v1alpha1_database.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f config/samples/database.sample_v1alpha1_databasecluster.yaml
$ kubectl get databases/database -n database -oyaml
$ kubectl get databases.database.sample.third.party/database -n database -oyaml
```

### Delete all resources

```
$ kubectl delete -f config/samples/database.sample_v1alpha1_databasecluster.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f config/samples/database.sample_v1alpha1_database.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f olm/subscription.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f olm/catalogsource.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f olm/subscription-openshift.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f olm/catalogsource-openshift.yaml
```

### Build and push new operator image

Create versions_local.env and change 'REGISTRY', 'ORG' and image version.

```
$ source ../versions_local.env
$ podman build -t "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR" .
$ podman push "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR"
```

### Build and push new bundle image

Create versions_local.env and change 'REGISTRY', 'ORG' and image version.

```
$ source ../versions_local.env
$ make bundle IMG="$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR"
$ podman build -f bundle.Dockerfile -t "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE" .
$ podman push "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE"
```

### Build and push new catalog image

Create versions_local.env and change 'REGISTRY', 'ORG' and image version.

```
$ source ../versions_local.env
$ ./bin/opm index add --build-tool podman --mode semver --tag "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_CATALOG" --bundles "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE"
$ podman push "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_CATALOG"
```

Define "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_CATALOG" in olm/catalogsource.yaml and/or olm/catalogsource-openshift.yaml and invoke the commands above to apply catalog source and subscription.

### Alternative

The Operator SDK provides a way to deploy the operator without a catalog.

```
$ operator-sdk run bundle "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE" -n operators
or for OpenShift:
$ operator-sdk run bundle "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE" -n openshift-operators
```

Commit message:

Updated DbSetupWithOLM.md file to setup the needed executable bin files
Updated DbSetupWithOLM.md file to setup the needed executable bin files for building and publishing new catalog image,
to resolve the issue https://github.com/IBM/operator-sample-go/issues/80

documentation/DbSetupWithOLM.md, after:

# Database Operator - Operator deployed with OLM

🔴 IMPORTANT: First install the [prerequistes](Prerequisites.md)! If you don't do it, it won't work :)

🔴 IMPORTANT: Webhooks and Prometheus doesn't work in this configuration yet.

### Deploy catalog source and subscription

```
$ cd operator-database
```

For Kubernetes:

```
$ kubectl apply -f olm/catalogsource.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f olm/subscription.yaml 
```

For OpenShift:

```
$ kubectl apply -f olm/catalogsource-openshift.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f olm/subscription-openshift.yaml 
```

### Verify the setup

For Kubernetes:

```
$ export NAMESPACE=operators
```

For OpenShift:

```
$ export NAMESPACE=openshift-operators
```

```
$ kubectl get all -n $NAMESPACE
$ kubectl get catalogsource operator-database-catalog -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl get subscriptions operator-database-v0-0-1-sub -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl get csv operator-database.v0.0.1 -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl get installplans -n $NAMESPACE
$ kubectl get installplans install-xxxxx -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl get operators operator-database.$NAMESPACE -n $NAMESPACE -oyaml
$ kubectl create ns database   
$ kubectl apply -f config/samples/database.sample_v1alpha1_database.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f config/samples/database.sample_v1alpha1_databasecluster.yaml
$ kubectl get databases/database -n database -oyaml
$ kubectl get databases.database.sample.third.party/database -n database -oyaml
```

### Delete all resources

```
$ kubectl delete -f config/samples/database.sample_v1alpha1_databasecluster.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f config/samples/database.sample_v1alpha1_database.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f olm/subscription.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f olm/catalogsource.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f olm/subscription-openshift.yaml
$ kubectl delete -f olm/catalogsource-openshift.yaml
```

### Build and push new operator image

Create versions_local.env and change 'REGISTRY', 'ORG' and image version.

```
$ source ../versions_local.env
$ podman build -t "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR" .
$ podman push "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR"
```

### Build and push new bundle image

Create versions_local.env and change 'REGISTRY', 'ORG' and image version.

```
$ source ../versions_local.env
$ make bundle IMG="$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR"
$ podman build -f bundle.Dockerfile -t "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE" .
$ podman push "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE"
```

### Build and push new catalog image

 ### Setup of the needed executable bin files
 
   Setup of the needed bin files (controller-gen, kustomize, opm, setup-envtest) for the operator-sdk projects. The script will create a temp operator sdk project, to create a the bin file and delete that temp project when it was finished.
   
   ```
   sh scripts/check-binfiles-for-operator-sdk-projects.sh
   ```
 
 Note: You need to interact with the script, because when you create the first time a bundle. These are the temp values you can use for the script execution. These are the example values: 'Display name : myproblemfix', Description : myproblemfix, Provider's name: myproblemfix, Any relevant URL:, Comma-separated keywords : myproblemfix Comma-separated maintainers: myproblemfix@myproblemfix.net.
Create versions_local.env and change 'REGISTRY', 'ORG' and image version.

Example output:
```
***  Bin folder status: operator-database
controller-gen  kustomize       opm             setup-envtest
***  Bin folder status: operator-database
controller-gen  kustomize       opm             setup-envtest
```

```
$ source ../versions_local.env
$ ./bin/opm index add --build-tool podman --mode semver --tag "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_CATALOG" --bundles "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE"
$ podman push "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_CATALOG"
```

Define "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_CATALOG" in olm/catalogsource.yaml and/or olm/catalogsource-openshift.yaml and invoke the commands above to apply catalog source and subscription.

### Alternative

The Operator SDK provides a way to deploy the operator without a catalog.

```
$ operator-sdk run bundle "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE" -n operators
or for OpenShift:
$ operator-sdk run bundle "$REGISTRY/$ORG/$IMAGE_DATABASE_OPERATOR_BUNDLE" -n openshift-operators
```
